my name is Richard Beaudry.
I'm a teacher of math and science
in grade eight, in the immersion program
at George Street
Middle School Middle School.
As a math teacher and a science teacher.
I try to see what,
are the richest connecting points
between two subjects.
So, for example,
I have the scientific principle
that I can better explore
using quantitative data.
I will do that, and sometimes vice versa.
I will try to have a map concept
that shines best through, a problem.
I'll try to have a problem that we can
actually go to the park to solve.
So, for example, if I want to discuss
the Pythagoras, I can do that by using a,
I can do some math of the triangle
and of the slopes, but I can also
do something that includes marble slides
and something that's testable.
If I want to talk about ratios,
I can discuss ratios in the classroom.
We can, have, practice sheets.
We can have, like, a bit of, like,
manipulative activity, but we can also
eventually go to, like,
go to a Bell Park and measure
some needs to answer a question,
such as is any given tree species,
consistent in the ratio of men
to what to wish for?
And so those are examples of how
I'm trying to mesh, math and science.
Science as a curriculum
will often be, leading towards,
like understanding
natural phenomenon through principles,
exploring those principles through,
experience, using those principles
that our knowledge of the,
material, towards final solution.
So sustainability
would be an example of that.
When we talk about a unit
such as a space unit, it's
hard to have just pure science of space
in the classroom.
We don't have
that kind of billion dollar footprint.
But at the same time, we do have,
ways to, replicate
the conditions that we would face on
March on Mars in order to,
find a solution to a problem,
whether it be like lending or circulating
on a different planet,
or even like maintaining
a healthy lifestyle on a space station.
So those are things we can do.
So there's a bit of that in science.
But as someone who would want to integrate
some math and looking DNA that feature,
so it's easy for me to just swap from
one to the other, I would integrate more,
more quantitative in the process.
Having more quantitative,
having more data allows the students
to then measure things and crunch a bit
so that we have like, the quantitative
cross-referencing of the principal.
Just to add the cherry in the sundae.
I, I find this as a math teacher is quite,
cathartic is when you have
not only students who are gathering data
from something they're observing,
but then sharing the data.
I don't know if I would quite call it
method analysis, but sharing enough data
so that the conclusion they're drawing
are not just from their own
little skewed experiment, but from,
let's see, a collectively a collective
experiment where everybody's sharing data
that could be surprising at that time.
And it gains a bit of like precision
in that sense.
So I'd say that's, that's
probably one of my,
my go to high yield way to integrate math
and science context, having a bit
more quantitative data in an environment.
Science environment where it's a bit
more geared towards principle
and experimentation and problem solving,
because we're dealing with predates,
I find like things that the market here
appreciate our now with the ones
that I would consider more high yield.
But at the same time we do appreciate it.
And that's I guess
it's the surprising positive side effects.
So for example, it is
it does help them understand better
what they manipulate something.
It does help them motivate them
when they're being more creative
about something.
So those are this practice
we know, they're also very thankful
when we just need to school and go to
a different environment to explore things.
They just enjoyed that.
They also enjoy a love being able
to share that with each other,
where you have like a board
with like a big, a big,
table where everybody inputs their data
that allows them to, have a sense
of what they just did, feels validated.
They can compare a little bit
with the other students.
It's almost like a
for quite a competition.
Sometimes a competing,
mind wouldn't have much of a space
in that data, but at the same time,
it allows them to make sense of it
and put it in context of bigger data.
The just himself, which I think that's
one of those like, things
they really enjoy
and somehow make science make sense.
In a way. It's, it's put in context.
Yeah.
The just the context of the principle
that it stems from, but also the context
of other people trying to apply those same
principles in a similar situation.
I would say it would be so much
easier if in the
structure of the
schedule, the year administration
gives you equal amount of math and science
for one given grade,
because the sheer fact of that schedule
will make everything more natural.
You don't feel like you're fighting
against the current when that happens.
Having the same kids
coming to you for math and science
and being introduced to the culture of,
both classes serving each other
will come down over the course of a year
for me, actually.
So if you show them in the math class
how to use this map concept,
and then you have a bit of more time
to explore time in, like,
exercise time,
the this is something they've been doing
since beginning.
But if you and then if you in science
use that math concept
and make it shine in a scientific context,
I think for the students,
it's definitely not as cathartic
as for the teacher, but it's definitely
something that will make sense to them.
It will come naturally.
While if I take that concept from math
that someone else taught them in
the beginning,
science would say that's probably an extra
step for them to appreciate it.
So that's the number one thing
as far as like
let's say that's already set in place.
And I think teachers wants to give
that a try.
I'd say like,
there's a habit of just thinking
science through the angle of measurability
in calculus ability
that will come with experience.
I think the challenge is always to be able
to pin,
the activity that where the math
and science outcomes overlap,
because often you'll find, like project
based ideas where you have a science
experiment
that fits in the science curriculum.
But when it comes to the math,
it becomes very simple math
that has fairly little to do with what
I'm supposed to teach in grade eight.
But when you're able to, like,
line up a quality graded math outcome
with a qualified outcome,
then you've got a bingo,
concept that in
that would have been seen once
and then gradually forgotten, stays alive
like, students will ask me sometimes,
why are we doing this concept?
We've already done this concept.
And the answer is simply
that it's a useful concept
used in the scientific context.
So if a map concept comes back, comes back
once in a while,
then it becomes more a culture,
then a tick the box.
If I can observe
in the scientific, papers
that the math concepts
that we've seen earlier a couple times,
by the time we reach the third time
frame, that they're not asking
the question anymore.
Are they just going to ask
for a quick reminder or they say
they'll say something like,
oh, it's the Protagoras thing.
We have to do this then, never mind.
Like we just
oh, are like, oh, you mean like,
so are we just using a ratio
like we did that time?
Yes. Okay. Well never mind,
I have a question.
So like the, the culture of math becomes
almost like a prerequisite
for what we're doing.
So in that sense, I think that's my way
to make it so natural to them
that it's not a fight between the students
and the outcome it becomes.
The outcome is just part of the toolbox
for something else we're doing in science.
I think what makes
me happy about that
combination is the fact that, like,
the sense of purpose is very high
and you're
you're still instilling a culture
of merging math and science together.
It's not the only combination that exists,
but I think that I think that's
a rich one in a is a very useful one.
It's purposeful.
It's hard for them
when they're 13 to understand
the purpose of measuring leaves in a park,
to know the ratio of leaves.
But their habit of like using math
and science together.
And when we have the provincial assessment
and the compare
the little bit notes
between what they were able to accomplish
and what they were asked
to do, the science, for actual assessment,
it was itself quite underwhelming for them
for that reason, because they were like,
I understand that
there are things that we need to know, but
like, let's see, lab safety
and like scientific method.
But the cyber, we're able
to like generate data from our experiment
and then compare data
that with other people is like
ten steps ahead, which I think
from the perspective of an educator.
It's nice to see them appreciate that.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's a privilege in a way,
to be to have those two courses,
together in a schedule.
So I appreciate that part, but I'd say from the point of view of the students, it's
it's a very well combination.
Yeah.